Sanli develop (#85)
SanliFaez/OS4Physicists: Lectures/Lecture7_Reproducibility.md

# Open Science for Physicists, Lecture 7, Documentation for reproducibility

+ Last updated: 29 08 2024
+ Lecturer: e.g. @SanliFaez 

#### Contributors: 
+ Sjoerd Terpstra @TerpstraS

## Development goal
Obtaining an intrinsic motivatio to documenting the project for replication and reproducibility

![Project documentation illustrated as a roadmap](reproducibility.jpg)
[The Turing Way project](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/reproducible-research/reproducible-research) illustration by Scriberia. Used under a CC-BY 4.0 licence. DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.3332807.

> Student teams start with their measurement projects. They will also define the goal of their experiment and the analysis procedures, and create the proper documentation folder.

Reviewer: Since this week is about reproducing the earlier projects, maybe we can say something like this
```suggestion
Student teams aim to reproduce a project from their peers from week 4. They will also review the documentation of the project and their experiences with reproducing the experiment.
```

anecdotes from the feedback that student gave each other last year

+ 'This should be like following a recipe to bake a cake, not like a investigation into a crime.' It took far too much effort to figure out what you did and then how you did what you did for anyone to WANT to reproduce it.
+ No issues whatsoever in reproducing.
+ We got stuck, because useful information that was present in the project description of the Git was not present in the README project.

+ Everything is in the expected files. The project documentation structure is clear.
+ It is the first thing the eyes of the reader fall on. The provided information is concise, but precise as well
+ They encouraged us and the procedure is easy enough, although the measurements and the analysis itself was not really motivating.

## Vision of outcome
By following the review exercise, each student will look criticaly at the documentation written by others and from the feedback they recieve will feel how their own documentation could have been imrpoved.

Good documentation is mostly an exercise in empathy, and practicing that is the main goal of the exercise of this lecture. 

## Embedding/community

> __please mention the main community that should be considered when studying the topics of this lecture, e.g. individual researchers, research community, employers, general public, etc. __

Reviewer: Missing the embedding/community. The community consists of people wanting to make use of a product (e.g., research output, software, lecture material), or groups using git to collaborate on projects.

> ## Methods

Reviewer: In some of the other lectures (eg lecture 1 and 2), this section is used to describe the content of the lectures. Maybe keep that same structure here and put these best practices under _Information Sources_?

Author: I fixed it in a new commit
